Seven hundred years earlier,
the prophet Micah had foretold that
the Messiah-King would be born in Bethlehem,
the ancient hometown of King David.
But there was a problem.
Mary and Joseph lived in Nazareth,
a three-day journey to the north.
How would the Scriptures be fulfilled?
God had everything under control.
As the time approached for Mary to give birth,
the Roman Emperor Caesar Augustus issued a decree
that all subjects of the empire must
return at once to the city of their ancestors
to register to pay taxes.
So Joseph and a very-pregnant Mary
traveled from Nazareth to Bethlehem.
While they were there, the time came
for the baby to be born,
and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son.
She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger,
because there was no room for them in the inn.
(Luke 2:6-7)
There in Bethlehem, overcrowded with
weary travelers (in town for the tax registration),
the promised Offspring of a woman was born.
The Gospel records the event with precision:
She gave birth to her firstborn, a son. (Luke 2:6)
On His mother’s side,
this baby was the newborn son of Mary,
but on His Father’s side, He was the eternal Son of God.
The same Word by which God created the world,
the same Voice which thundered from fiery Mount Sinai
could now be heard in a baby’s soft cry.
And where was He born?
Not in the palace of a king, not in a hospital,
not even in a wayside inn.
The King from heaven was born
where baby lambs are born—
in a barn, with a feeding trough for His bed.
It was all part of God’s plan.
For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ,
that though he was rich,
yet for your sakes he became poor,
so that you through his poverty might become rich.
(2 Corinthians 8:9)
But couldn’t God have arranged some sort of
celebration to honor the arrival of His Son?
He did.